Game Design Document

Title: Metamorphian
Genre: Fixed Shooter
Similar Games: Bosconian, Centipede, Galaxian

Mechanics:
    
    Player cannon: The player is a gun much like in Centipede and can
    move around the bottom of the screen to fire bullets.
    
    Leaf Walls: Leafs are generated in different patterns when each
    level is cleared. Can be shot and eaten.
    
    Acorns: Rare special items that give the player limited bullets
    with different abilities
        red: gives the player 2 maggot bullets 
        blue: gives the player a vine grower bullet 
    
    Egg Base: larva generate from this base and it's the player's
    goal to destroy this base.
    
    Larva: Emerge from the egg base where they eat leaves. 
    When 1 leaf have been eaten, the larva becomes
    a cacoon. 
    
    Cocoon: Is stagnant, but can absorb bullet fire. Larva will build
    cocoons in wall formations to protect larva. Vulnerable to maggot
    larva. They will slowly change color which signifies to the player
    when the butterfly will hatch out. For instance, if they are blue
    they'll slowly turn red and play a hatch animation.
    
    Butterfly: Can fly over anything and lay eggs, but also directly
    attacks the player with bullets. After a butterfly is shot, it's 
    body falls where it's killed. A maggot bullet infects the body of 
    the butterfly and a normal bullet destroys it.
    
    Bullets:
        normal: kills eggs, larva, and butterflys
        maggot egg: if shot into a dead butterfly it will hatch from
        the body and create Maggot larva.
        vine grower: creates a vine wall wherever it stops.
    
    Maggot Larva: Eat cocoons to be becomal Larval cocooon. Vulnerable
    to regular larva
    
    Maggot Cocoon: Weak to regular larva. They must be protected if
    possible.
    
    Flys: You did it you created a fly. Can only be killed by
    a Butterfly bullet. Flys go to kill enemies and the egg base.
    
    Stage Clearing: When a stage is cleared of the egg base, a new
    map is generated.
    
Controls:
    Move: WASD.
    Fire Bullet: O
    Swich bullet (if avaiable): P


Aesthetics:
    The art will be pixel graphics.